Python 
1.What is init keyword ?
the __init__ method in Python is a special method used for initializing newly created objects of a class.
It's automatically called when a new instance of the class is created and allows you to set up initial attributes and perform initialization logic.

2.What is self keyword ?
in Python, the self keyword refers to the instance of the class itself. 
It's used to access instance variables and methods within the class definition and is a required parameter for instance methods.
 self allows you to distinguish between instance variables and local variables within class methods.

3.What is lambda functon?
 a lambda function in Python is a small, anonymous function that can have any number of parameters but can only contain a single expression. 
 It's defined using the lambda keyword instead of the def keyword used for regular functions. Lambda functions are commonly used for short, 
 one-time tasks where defining a formal function isn't necessary.
 
4.Difference between lambda and normal function
Lambda functions are anonymous functions defined using the lambda keyword, typically for simple, one-time tasks.
Normal functions are defined using the def keyword, can have a name, and can contain multiple statements.
Lambda functions are often used for short, concise operations, while normal functions are used for more complex tasks and reusable code.

5.What are generators? When to use ? share one example
generators in Python are functions that produce a sequence of values lazily, one at a time, using the yield keyword instead of return.
hey're useful for generating large datasets or infinite sequences efficiently,
as they generate values on-the-fly without storing the entire sequence in memory.
 
6.Python is compiled or interpreted language ? what does it mean?
Python is both compiled and interpreted.
Python source code is compiled into bytecode (.pyc files) before execution.
The Python interpreter then executes the bytecode.
This combination of compilation and interpretation provides both flexibility and performance in Python programming.

7.What is the difference between list and tuples in Python? 
Lists are like dynamic arrays. They are mutable (modifiable) and are defined using square brackets []. 
You can add, remove, or modify elements in a list.

Tuples are immutable sequences of elements. Once created, they cannot be changed. 
Tuples are defined using parentheses (). They are typically used for fixed collections of items.

In essence, lists are for collections of items that may change, while tuples are for collections of items that should remain constant.

8.What is the difference between list and set in Python?
Lists:
Ordered collections, elements are indexed and can be accessed by index.
Can contain duplicate elements.
Mutable (modifiable).
Defined using square brackets [].
Sets:
Unordered collections, elements have no specific order and cannot be accessed by index.
Contains only unique elements, duplicates are automatically removed.
Mutable (modifiable).
Defined using curly braces {}.
Lists are for ordered collections with possible duplicates, 
while sets are for unordered collections of unique elements. Lists are indexed and ordered, while sets are not.

9.When to use dictionary?

In simple terms, use a dictionary in Python when:

You need to store data in key-value pairs, where each key maps to a specific value.
You want fast lookup times based on keys.
You have a collection of unique keys and you need to access corresponding values quickly.
You're working with configuration settings, aggregating data, or grouping information based on some identifier.
You want to efficiently handle sparse data structures, where only a small fraction of possible keys are used.
In essence, dictionaries are like real-life dictionaries: you look up a word (the key) to find its definition (the value). 
They're handy when you need to quickly find information based on some unique identifier.

10.What are decorators? When to use ? share one example
Decorators in Python are functions that modify the behavior of other functions or methods.
They allow you to add functionality to functions without changing their original code.
Decorators are commonly used for tasks like logging, authentication, caching, and validation.
They are applied using the @decorator_name syntax.
Decorators are a powerful tool for extending and customizing the behavior of functions in a flexible and reusable way.

11.What are Iterators?
Iterators are objects in Python that allow you to traverse through a collection of elements one by one.
They follow the iteration protocol, implementing __iter__() and __next__() methods.
Iterators provide lazy evaluation, generating elements on-demand.
They raise a StopIteration exception when there are no more elements to iterate over.
Iterators are used with iterable objects like lists, tuples, dictionaries, etc., enabling efficient and memory-friendly iteration.

 
12.What is slicing?
Slicing in Python is a technique to extract a portion of a sequence (like a list, tuple, or string) by specifying start, stop, and step arguments.
It's done using square brackets [] with start:stop:step notation.
Start index is inclusive, stop index is exclusive.
If start is omitted, it defaults to the beginning of the sequence.
If stop is omitted, it defaults to the end of the sequence.
If step is omitted, it defaults to 1, meaning consecutive elements are selected.
Slicing is a powerful and efficient way to manipulate sequences, enabling easy extraction of subsets of data.

13.What is mutable and immutable?
Mutable: Objects that can be changed after creation.
Example: Lists, dictionaries, sets.
Immutable: Objects that cannot be changed after creation.
Example: Integers, floats, strings, tuples.
Mutable objects allow modifications, while immutable objects do not.
Immutable objects are often more memory-efficient and hashable.
Understanding mutability is crucial for efficient and reliable coding in Python.

14.Python is single thread or multithread?
Python supports both single-threaded and multi-threaded programming.
Single-threaded mode is the default and executes code sequentially.
Multi-threading is possible with the threading module but doesn't achieve true parallelism due to the Global Interpreter Lock (GIL).
Multi-threading is more suited for I/O-bound tasks.
For true parallelism, consider using multiprocessing or external libraries.

15.What is GIL
The Global Interpreter Lock (GIL) is a mechanism in CPython that allows only one thread to execute Python bytecode at a time.
It ensures thread safety but limits the effectiveness of multi-threading in CPU-bound tasks.
Multi-threading can still provide concurrency benefits in I/O-bound tasks.
Alternatives like multiprocessing are used for achieving true parallelism in CPU-bound tasks.

16.What you don’t like about python?
As an AI language model, I don't have personal opinions or feelings. However, I can provide common criticisms that some developers have expressed 
about Python:
Performance: Python can be slower than lower-level languages like C or C++, especially in CPU-intensive tasks, due to factors like the Global 
Interpreter Lock (GIL) and dynamic typing.
GIL Limitations: The Global Interpreter Lock (GIL) in CPython can limit the effectiveness of multi-threading for CPU-bound tasks, 
as it allows only one thread to execute Python bytecode at a time.
Packaging and Dependency Management: Python's packaging ecosystem (e.g., pip and PyPI) can sometimes lead to dependency management challenges,
 such as conflicting dependencies or versioning issues.
Whitespace Sensitivity: Python's significant whitespace, while promoting clean and readable code, can sometimes be frustrating for developers
 who are accustomed to languages with explicit block delimiters.
Global State and Mutable Defaults: Python allows mutable default arguments in function definitions, which can lead to unexpected behavior and bugs,
 especially for inexperienced developers.
Threading and Concurrency: While Python provides threading support, it may not be as effective for CPU-bound concurrency due to the GIL. 
Asynchronous programming with asyncio can mitigate some of these limitations but requires a different programming paradigm.
Mobile and Web Development: Python may not be as widely used for mobile app development or frontend web development compared to languages like Java,
 Swift, or JavaScript.
These criticisms aside, Python remains one of the most popular and versatile programming languages, valued for its simplicity, readability, 
extensive standard library, and vibrant ecosystem. Many developers find that its strengths far outweigh its limitations for a wide range of
applications.

17.What is list Comprehension?
list comprehension is a concise way to create lists in Python. Instead of writing a loop to populate a list, you can use a single line of code to
 achieve the same result. It's like writing a compact loop directly inside square brackets [].
For example, let's say you want to create a list containing squares of numbers from 0 to 9. You can do it with list comprehension like this:
python
Copy code
squares = [x**2 for x in range(10)]
This line of code creates a list where each element is the square of the corresponding number in the range from 0 to 9.
 List comprehension makes your code more readable and concise compared to using a loop.

18.What are Dunder methods? Give examples

dunder methods (short for "double underscore" methods) are special methods in Python that have double underscores (__) at the beginning and end of 
their names. They allow you to define custom behavior for built-in operations like object creation, printing, addition, comparison, and more.

Here's an example of a simple dunder method:
python

class MyClass:
    def __init__(self, value):
        self.value = value
    def __str__(self):
        return f"MyClass instance with value: {self.value}"
obj = MyClass(10)
print(obj)  # Output: MyClass instance with value: 10
In this example, __init__ is a dunder method used to initialize objects, and __str__ is a dunder method used to provide a string representation of the
 object when printed

19.What does _init_ method do?

The __init__ method in Python is like a constructor that initializes object attributes when they are created. It assigns values to object attributes 
using self, which refers to the instance itself.

20.Difference between array and numpy library.

Array: Basic data structure in Python for storing elements of the same data type. Limited functionality compared to NumPy.
NumPy Library: Powerful Python library for numerical computing. Provides multidimensional arrays (ndarrays) and extensive mathematical functions.
 Offers more versatility and efficiency compared to arrays.